p8105_hw1_amh2325.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_amh2325
================
Amanda Howarth
9/19/2019

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.2.1 ──

    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.2.1     ✔ purrr   0.3.2
    ## ✔ tibble  2.1.3     ✔ dplyr   0.8.3
    ## ✔ tidyr   0.8.3     ✔ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✔ readr   1.3.1     ✔ forcats 0.4.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

## Question 1

## Creating a dataframe

This data frame will include classes in a high school and the floor they
are located on within the school

``` r
#create a dataframe 
set.seed(8)
hw_df = tibble(
    samp = rnorm(8),
logic = samp > 0,
class = c("biology", "chemistry", "physics", "history", "math", "art", "music", "gym"),
floor = factor(c("first", "second", "third", "second", "first", "second", "third", "first"))
)
```

Taking the mean of each variable

``` r
#taking mean values 
mean(pull(hw_df, samp))
```

    ## [1] -0.1111207

``` r
mean(pull(hw_df, logic))
```

    ## [1] 0.25

``` r
mean(pull(hw_df, class))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(hw_df, class)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(hw_df, floor))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(hw_df, floor)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

We received the mean for the numeric (samp) and logical (logic)
variables. For both the charcter (class) and factor (floor) variables, R
would not allow us to get the mean. We receive the following warning:
argument is not numeric or logical: returning NA\[1\] NA. This is
because there are currently methods for numeric/logical vectors and
date, date-time, and time interval objects. Complex vectors are allowed
for trim=0.

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw_df,logic))
```

    ## [1] 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw_df,class))
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ## [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw_df,floor))
```

    ## [1] 1 2 3 2 1 2 3 1

When we run the above codes, the values are outputted for the “logic”
and “floor” variable but not for the “class” variable. This is because
the logical variable has a value of 0 (false) and 1(true). There factor
variable also technically has numeric variables as it is ordered:
1=first, 2=second, 3=third.

Converting logical variables

``` r
#converting logical vector to numeric and multiplying by samp
logic = as.numeric(pull(hw_df, logic))
pull(hw_df, samp)*logic 
```

    ## [1] 0.0000000 0.8404001 0.0000000 0.0000000 0.7360404 0.0000000 0.0000000
    ## [8] 0.0000000

``` r
#converting logical vector to a factor and multiplying by samp
logic = as.factor(pull(hw_df, logic))
pull(hw_df, samp)*logic
```

    ## Warning in Ops.factor(pull(hw_df, samp), logic): '*' not meaningful for
    ## factors

    ## [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
#converting logical factor to a factor, then converting the result to numeric, and multiplying by samp

as.factor(pull(hw_df, logic))
```

    ## [1] FALSE TRUE  FALSE FALSE TRUE  FALSE FALSE FALSE
    ## Levels: FALSE TRUE

``` r
as.numeric(as.factor(pull(hw_df, logic)))*pull(hw_df, samp)
```

    ## [1] -0.08458607  1.68080025 -0.46348277 -0.55083500  1.47208086 -0.10788140
    ## [7] -0.17028915 -1.08833171

Commit message:

created new dataframe (hw2_df)

p8105_hw1_amh2325.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_amh2325
================
Amanda Howarth
9/19/2019

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.2.1 ──

    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.2.1     ✔ purrr   0.3.2
    ## ✔ tibble  2.1.3     ✔ dplyr   0.8.3
    ## ✔ tidyr   0.8.3     ✔ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✔ readr   1.3.1     ✔ forcats 0.4.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

## Problem 1: This problem is intended to emphasize variable types and introduce coercion; some awareness of how R treats numeric, character, and factor variables is necessary for working with these data types in practice.

## Creating a dataframe

This data frame will include classes in a high school and the floor they
are located on within the school

``` r
#create a dataframe 
set.seed(8)
hw_df = tibble(
    samp = rnorm(8),
logic = samp > 0,
class = c("biology", "chemistry", "physics", "history", "math", "art", "music", "gym"),
floor = factor(c("first", "second", "third", "second", "first", "second", "third", "first"))
)
```

Taking the mean of each variable

``` r
#taking mean values 
mean(pull(hw_df, samp))
```

    ## [1] -0.1111207

``` r
mean(pull(hw_df, logic))
```

    ## [1] 0.25

``` r
mean(pull(hw_df, class))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(hw_df, class)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(hw_df, floor))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(hw_df, floor)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

We received the mean for the numeric (samp) and logical (logic)
variables. For both the charcter (class) and factor (floor) variables, R
would not allow us to get the mean. We receive the following warning:
argument is not numeric or logical: returning NA\[1\] NA. This is
because there are currently methods for numeric/logical vectors and
date, date-time, and time interval objects. Complex vectors are allowed
for trim=0.

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw_df,logic))
```

    ## [1] 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw_df,class))
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ## [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw_df,floor))
```

    ## [1] 1 2 3 2 1 2 3 1

When we run the above codes, the values are outputted for the “logic”
and “floor” variable but not for the “class” variable. This is because
the logical variable has a value of 0 (false) and 1(true). There factor
variable also technically has numeric variables as it is ordered:
1=first, 2=second, 3=third.

Converting logical variables

``` r
#converting logical vector to numeric and multiplying by samp
logic = as.numeric(pull(hw_df, logic))
pull(hw_df, samp)*logic 
```

    ## [1] 0.0000000 0.8404001 0.0000000 0.0000000 0.7360404 0.0000000 0.0000000
    ## [8] 0.0000000

``` r
#converting logical vector to a factor and multiplying by samp
logic = as.factor(pull(hw_df, logic))
pull(hw_df, samp)*logic
```

    ## Warning in Ops.factor(pull(hw_df, samp), logic): '*' not meaningful for
    ## factors

    ## [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
#converting logical factor to a factor, then converting the result to numeric, and multiplying by samp

as.factor(pull(hw_df, logic))
```

    ## [1] FALSE TRUE  FALSE FALSE TRUE  FALSE FALSE FALSE
    ## Levels: FALSE TRUE

``` r
as.numeric(as.factor(pull(hw_df, logic)))*pull(hw_df, samp)
```

    ## [1] -0.08458607  1.68080025 -0.46348277 -0.55083500  1.47208086 -0.10788140
    ## [7] -0.17028915 -1.08833171

## Problem 2: This problem focuses the use of inline R code, plotting, and the behavior of ggplot for variables of different types.

``` r
#create a dataframe 
set.seed(1000)
hw2_df = tibble(
  x = rnorm(500),
  y = rnorm(500),
  logical_vector = x + y > 1,
  numeric_vector = as.numeric(logical_vector),
  factor_vector = as.factor(logical_vector)
  )
```
